# Identity Operators

`is` & `is not` compares the addresses (memory locations) of two variables.

<br> Addresses are same for smaller size strings and numbers
and are NOT for larger sizes.
# Member Ship Operators
`in` and `not in` can be used to check if a sequence is in an object or not

Data inside a variable in stored as objects, and when two variables have same data (small data) ,they will be connected to the same object/
## Mutable and immutable 
Lists are mutable <br>
Strings and integers are  NOT mutable <br>
mostly everything else is not <br>

# Lookup
Collection and containers. - list, tuple, set, dict <br>
int , str, float
<br> `dir()` shows all the list of attributes and methods belonging to a specific object <br>
`help()` <br>
**Tuple()** <br>
**Hashable** can be tested via `hash()`, there is a connections between hashable and collection <br>
**ordered**

# Notes
Unary operators don't exist in python (why?) <br>
Python supports structural , Functional and oops paradigms <br>

---

# List
Lists are heterogenous but are usually used in python for homogenous data <br>
Lists can be indexed , can be positive or negative <br>
Lists can be concatenated using `+` operator, and upon concatenation the id of it remains same , making it <mark>mutable </mark> <br>
<br> Mutable is when address is retained when the object is changed <br>
lists are not hashable

---

# Tuple
Tuple can be created like `tup_1 = ()`
<br>Tuple's are NOT mutable<br>
These are compatible with heterogenous type of data and this tuple is close to a **list ()** 
<br> Tuple is hashable
<br>Again these are ordered and indexed <br>
`a = (2)` is **int** but `a = (2,)` is a **tuple** <br>
More such can be stored like `a = (2,2.3,'a', "vinyl")`

---

## Set
can be created as `s_1 = set()` <br>
**sets are not ordered hence cannot be indexed**
<br> sets can be assigned after creating by ` s_1 = {23,21,25,76}`. <br>
sets cannot be `id()`ed
<br> Are sets mutable? <br>
Sets are non-redundant, a.k.a will remove repeated elements.<br>
Sets are not hashable, but only hashable objects can be elements of sets. Hence lists cannot be a part of sets, but tuples can be.

---

## Dictionary - dict
Dicts can be indexed using key value
<br> can be declared using `d_1 = {1:"Distance", 2:"Car"}` and `1` is the key value for `Distance`

---

## Hash()
integers are hashable, strings are hashable, tuples are hashable but lists are not hashable.
